Five categories of Azure Cognitive Services: Language,Speech,Vision,Decision and Applied AI services.
GPT3 is a part of Language service.
Anomaly Detector is a part of Decision services.
Azure cognitive and search is part of Applied AI services.
Azure Open AI service is also there.
Vision has Azure AI vision and Azure AI custom vision.
What is multi vision account?
We have Language Studio to access the services.
Azure AI Decision Capabilities have: Azure AI Anomaly Detector,AI Content Safety, and AI Personalizer.
Cognitive services multi-serivce account will give you on access key and endpoint will aloow you to access all the cognitive services with that.
Otherwise , allow for only translation like service , it will create access endpoint for that particular service only.
Endpoint is URL to access the resource/service.
Azure always provide two keys for security purpose.
We can regenerate both keys for security purpose.
We can create alerts on different services to create a trigger.
Each service have different set of metrics.
Endpoint is not unique to us , but keypoint is.
Even if user has key, we can restrict his access publically by craeting resource inside VPC.
With generate custom domain name , we can make our endpoint unique because it will change the url which is unique for everyone.
Alternative fpr keypoint is role base access control that assigning roles to specific IAM users.
We can use both also.
Region name is embedded in service of endpoint.
Every service have different endpoint name, we can have default name for all of them.
I can develop bot service in azure also.
We have to use docker and kubernetes.
Is web app for deployment?

Anomaly Detector falls under Azure AI services.
Univariate Anomaly Detection detects anomalies in one variable like revenue,costetc.
Multivariate anomaly detection detects anomalies in multiple variables with correlations which are gathered from complex systems.
Cotent moderator is like let's say you have application which accepts user generated content , so you have to moderate or verify the content , it is used for that purpose.It is of different types:
Image moderator(for analysing images),text moderator,video moderator,List management API etc.
We will get bounding boxes in images analysis.
Azure AI Personalizer is like reinforcement learning.
Rank API: Called each time there is decision to be made.
Reward API: called when there is feedback that can help the next decision.
Apprentice mode: Observes the application's current logic.
Configuration settings: You can choose how frequently the model updates,you can choose delay for rewards to be counted as feedback.
Under setup we can do that.
In Metric advisor: for persons noob in data science and ml , to identify patterns in live streaming coming data.It is used to analysing data.
Azure Immersive reader ?  It is related to javascript code may be.
It identifies tags in images with confidence.
We can identify tags in imgae, image description,identify landmaks and celibities,idemtify brands in image in computer vision solutions.
We can moderate adult content also in mirosoft adult content.
We can generate thumbnails by using Computer vision API.
Cognitive services can detect faces , but to actually dig deep dive into detecting faces we can use face detection API.
In the custom vision service , there is a option of training model, prediction and both.
There is a difference between object classification and object detection, object detection gives the whole set of coordinates and wider picture.
We can analyze the video using video indexer.
NLP is largest section in exam.
Speech services are: implement text to speech,customize text to speech,implement speech to text,improce speech to text accuracy.
There are different type of voices: standard,custom and neural voices.
LUIS creates intents and entities based on schema,then add utterances.
Azure app service and Azure cognitive service in qna maker?
We have to create knowledge base for qna maker.
We can edit the knowledge base also.
We can publish the qna chatbot to public channels like instagram,slack etc.
Bot Framework is more advanced way of building bot.
BotFrameworkComposer helps you build a bot with GUI without code.
Ai vision services include four main categories:OCR, Image analysis,face and video analysis.
Image requirements are: JPG,PNG,BMP,GIF, less than 4mb,greater than 50*50 pixels,less than 10000*10000 pixels for OCR.
Video requirements:RTSP,raw video,MP4,FLV,or MKV format.Video codec for H.264,HEVC,raw video, VP9 or MPEG-4.
It supports dozens of languages.
We can generate alt text from images also.
Azure AI language service includes Text Analytics, Qna Maker, and LUIS.
It includes key phrase extraction and names entity recogntion also.
AI speech services includes sppech to text ,text to speech and translation services.
Open AI includes Gen AI solutions.
AI Document Intelligence was first a form recognizer.
It extract data from forms.
It allows bot prebuilt and custom extraction models.
Knowledge mining is implemented using Azure AI search.
Like in thousands of documents to find something relevant.
Azure AI service is multi-service account and Azure AI Speech is single service account.If you want to access all the services in one resource then
you need to have Azure AI services account multi service resource.
CICD is a wasy to efficiently update custom models in production without disrupting them.
Custom models are like custom vision, custom speech,coversation AI bots, custom Document Intelliganece.
The continuous aspect of it means is deployment is automated.
AI services run in the cloud, you may not want this because compliance,security and performanece.
We can use Diagnostic settings for monitoring in Azure Monitor tool.
Azure has keyvault service to protect keys.You should not be storing important secret information in config files.It is recommended.
Threshold in images and text is there.
Image classification: Assigns labels to entore image.Ideal for categorizing photo into pre-defined class.
Object Detection:Identifies and locate objects within images.Suitable for scenarios where the location of object is important.
With AI spatial analyis , we can monitor people movement and presence in video streams.
BLEU score is used for model translation service.
AI Search understands JSON file format.
Latest Open AI models are: GPT-4,GPT-3.5,Embeddings,DALL-E,Whisper,Text to Speech.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VisualFeatureTypes.description is used to analyze image description.
.tags is used for analyzing tags.
File.OpenRead opens an existing file for reading.
Azure Cosmos DB is database.
Azure AI Search is used to index documents for search.
We should also give the billing endpoint to service.



 
 
FaceAPI: Advanced Face Detection.
Facelist is a list of upto 1000 faces.
LargeFacelist is list upto 1M faces.
FormRecognizer: Get intelligence from scanned  forms and images.

Text Analytics: Detect sentiment,key phrases and named entities.
Translator: Translate to/from 90 languages.
Speech Service: Speech to text,text to speech,translation and speaker recognition.
Qna Maker: Conversational questions and answers layer.
LUIS language: Understanding Intelligent Service.
 
Custom Vision: Create custom models using images.

Custom Vision allows you to create custom models using your own images
Named Entity Recognition: list of general named entities in a given document - Person, Location, Organization, Quantity, DateTime, URL, Phone Number, IP Address etc
Custom Vision can be used to create custom image classification model. Computer Vision can be used to detect objects, faces, text etc. in images.
Cognitive Services bring AI within reach of every developer. AI without building custom models. Does NOT need machine-learning expertise.
Speech synthesis is converting speech to text.
You need to normalize your numeric features. The process of normalization brings numeric features to a common scale.
	
Feature engineering is the method of creating new features based on the existing ones.
AUC value should be 1.

Brand detection is a specialized mode of object detection that uses a database of thousands of global logos to identify commercial brands in images or video.

Stemming reduces the word to base form, whereas lemmization also but converts into meaningful form.

AutoML,Azure ML Designer.
In Azure we can choose computer vision service or cognitive services.
Cognnitive services include many other services under one umbrella.
All services requires key and an endpoint.
Ther is computer vision and custom vision.
Face service can recognize human in an image,needs to be trained on your own data, to compare one face against known face ,to identify if they belong 
to same person.
In language model ,we can build our own dict of words.
Speech recognition: the ability to detect and interpret speech.
Speech synthesis: the ability to generate spoken output.
Language Serice is of the Azure services that include key phrase extraction, entity detection, and 
