`.java to compile with.class to .jar and build to user.
Artifact is the name of the project.
POM: PROJECT OBJECT MODEL.
After maven install , build is made with .jar file.
Jenkins is integration tool,we can connect github,maven etc. with it using their plugins.
POM.xml is maven file.
90%of devops engineers are ,cloud engineers.
First authentication is done ,then authorization is done.
Kubectl is a command-line interface (CLI) tool used to interact with a Kubernetes cluster.
TargetPort means routing traffic.
Service is a Kubernetes object that provides a stable IP address and DNS name for a set of Pods. Services enable communication between different parts
of an application, both within the Kubernetes cluster and outside it.

Terraform is for system provisioning and ansible is for system configuration.
Difference between Ansible and Chef?
Cookbook in chef and playbook in ansible.
Recipe in chef and module in ansible.
It is agent based and it is agent less.
It works on pull mechanism and it works on push mechanism.
Fact gathering?
Ansible playbook?
Syntax of Ansible playbook?: 2 dash at starting.
Ansible playbook commands are:
ansible-playbook playbook-name.yml
which httpd?
sudo service httpd status?
Handlers and Roles are advanced playbook concepts?

No two services can use same port number.
In roles we can make multiple playbooks and in those we can run multiple tasks.
And combine them in master playbook and run again.
yum works on redhat.
apt works on Ubuntu.

Terraform is tool owned by Hashicorp.
It provisions the servers within 30sec ,beside takes hours.
Terraform uses HCL language.
It is like JSON.
Always save your installations in separate folder.
Create access key in IAM user and download as csv file.
You don't have to remeber any code in terraform , everything is already provided in the form of templates.
Commands:
terraform init
terraform validate: To check whether the code is right.
terraform plan: will interpret each thing in your script.
terraform apply: will provision resources.
terraform destroy: to delete all the resources.
Terraform uses declarative appraoch.Imperative vs Declarative approach?
Use of variables in terraform.

Prometheus,Grafnna,AlertManager,Node Exporter are used for system monitoring purpose in production phase.
Metrics collection,Dashboard visualization,Alert notification,win populate metric are uses.

Major project is ased on ECS and EKS.

