GEN AI is part or we can say subset of ML.
A square matrix is singular if it is not invertible and deteminant =0.
Token is a unit of text that might be word.
Tokens are more consistent than words.
Tokens are smaaller and easily manageable.
Tokens are effiecient to process.
GenAI understands relatioship between tokens and helps in predicting next token.
Tokens are more consistent than words - They have one meaning, smaller and therefore, easier to establish relationships.
Foundation Models: Pre-Trained Multi Task Models. Large Language Models are Foundation Models focused on text.
OpenAI Playground: Web based tool to experiment with the OpenAI API
Prompt Design Principles:
Clear instruction , avoid ambiguity and vagueness.
Give examples(Zero shot vs One Shot vs Few Shots).
Consider using Framework(RTF,CTF,RASCEF).
Be really specific abbout what you want.
Defined what to do if model donot know answer.
Ask the model if he is an expert.
Zero shot have no examples,one shot have one example and few shot has few examples given to model.
Both Open AI and ChatGPT plus are independent from each other.
In embeddings, higher the dot product higher the similarity with embedding.
Embeddings are vector representations of words in a high-dimensional space.
GPT models can generate text. DALL·E model generates images.
To tune a language model with OpenAI API, You need to create training dataset file in JSONL format.
ChatGPT Plugins allows you to add amazing new features to ChatGPT through third party applications.
ChatGPT Advanced Data Analysis allow you to use ChatGPT and analyze information.
Chain is python class provided by Laqngchain.
Chauin is used to make reusable text generation pipeline.Itv can be connected together to make a more complex pipeline.
A chain wraps up a promptTemplate and an LLM.

I want to Understand DevOps and start
exploring different DevOps Tools. Can you
suggest a few prompts I can start with?It is an examplr of prompting.

Goal of AI is to create machines that can simulate human level intelligence.

Categorical , Discrete or dimension is represented by Bar Graph.
Line plot is used to find the trends and scatter plot is used to find the relationship between parameters.
It is true that scatter plota are used to compare.


Recall and precision have to do 6.
softmax matrix??
Azure AI Vision and Azure AI services.
Do practical part also.
Azure Pre-Trained Models are available under the umbrella of Azure Cognitive Services.
Azure Machine Learning is used ot build complex ML models.
Pre Trained models are for every one use.
Cognitive services is renamed to Azure AI services.
Azure AI Language is a cloud-based service that includes features for understanding and analyzing text. Azure AI Language includes various features that support sentiment analysis, key phrase identification, text summarization, 
and conversational language understanding.
Stemming is a technique in which algorithms are applied to consolidate words before counting them.
n-grams are multi-term phrases such as "I have" or "he walked".
Stop words are words that should be excluded from the analysis. 
Azure AI Content Safety service, which identifies harmful text or images.
Azure AI Video Indexer, which you can use to detect and identify faces in a video.
Azure AI Face, which offers pre-built algorithms that can detect, recognize, and analyze faces.
Endpoint is where you access the service and key is just password.
Azure AI Language: A resource that enables you to build apps with industry-leading natural language understanding capabilities without machine learning expertise.


Cognitive services to make gen ai accessible.
Computer Vision : To analyze content in images and videos.
Face API: Detect and identify people and emotions in images.
Custom Vision: To customize the image to fit into business.
Azure AI Search provides the infrastructure and tools to create search solutions that extract data from various structured, semi-structured, and 
non-structured documents.
If your organization makes the decision to customize Microsoft copilot or develop custom copilots, Microsoft provides two tools that you can use, Copilot Studio and Azure AI Studio.


ChatGPT is Open AI Chatbot.
GEN-AI uses self-supervised learning means learning from the data itself.
OpenAI-API helps to integrate gen-ai into your apps.

FaceAPI: Advanced Face Detection.
Facelist is a list of upto 1000 faces.
LargeFacelist is list upto 1M faces.
FormRecognizer: Get intelligence from scanned  forms and images.

Text Analytics: Detect sentiment,key phrases and named entities.
Translator: Translate to/from 90 languages.
Speech Service: Speech to text,text to speech,translation and speaker recognition.
Qna Maker: Conversational questions and answers layer.
LUIS language: Understanding Intelligent Service.
 
Custom Vision: Create custom models using images.

Custom Vision allows you to create custom models using your own images
Named Entity Recognition: list of general named entities in a given document - Person, Location, Organization, Quantity, DateTime, URL, Phone Number, IP Address etc
Custom Vision can be used to create custom image classification model. Computer Vision can be used to detect objects, faces, text etc. in images.
Cognitive Services bring AI within reach of every developer. AI without building custom models. Does NOT need machine-learning expertise.
Speech synthesis is converting speech to text.
You need to normalize your numeric features. The process of normalization brings numeric features to a common scale.
	
Feature engineering is the method of creating new features based on the existing ones.
AUC value should be 1.

Brand detection is a specialized mode of object detection that uses a database of thousands of global logos to identify commercial brands in images or video.

Stemming reduces the word to base form, whereas lemmization also but converts into meaningful form.

AutoML,Azure ML Designer.
In Azure we can choose computer vision service or cognitive services.
Cognnitive services include many other services under one umbrella.
All services requires key and an endpoint.
Ther is computer vision and custom vision.
Face service can recognize human in an image,needs to be trained on your own data, to compare one face against known face ,to identify if they belong 
to same person.
In language model ,we can build our own dict of words.
Speech recognition: the ability to detect and interpret speech.
Speech synthesis: the ability to generate spoken output.
Language Serice is of the Azure services that include key phrase extraction, entity detection, and 
sentiment analysis.
LLMs are for text and Diffusion models are for images.
