See the difference between logo of docker and kubernetives.
There we will realize that kubernetives is container management tool.
In Monolithic architecture , whole code used to deployed on single server , so in caseif any change of code in any module,
whole code was impacted, so to remove this issue microservices was introduced. 
For accessing microservices , we use api gateways.
It helps to do autoscaling of containers, for eg. in Disney Hotstar.
Kubernetes is an open source container management tool which automates container deployment,container scaling
and load balancing.
It schedules, runs and manages isolated containers which are running on virtual /physical/cloud machines.
 Cluster is a group of containers.
 
 Before kubernetes , containers cannot communicate with each other, autoscaling and load balancing was not possible and mangement 
 was tough.
 Features of kubernetives:
 orchestration(clustering of containers running on different networks),autoscaling, auto-healing,load balancing,
 platform independent, fault tolerant, rollback(going back to previous version), health monotoring of containers,
 batch execution(one time, sequential, parallel).
 Kubernetes can do both vertical and horizontal scaling.
 Kubernetes has gui available , but docker swarm deos not have gui.
 Kubernetes can be used with any contanerization tool , but docker swarm only supports docker.
 Kubernetes controls conatiner with pods.
 Cluster containes master and node, k8s supports master-slave and client-server architecture.
 In node, we can make multiple pods.Kubernetes does not talk directly with container, it talks
 with pod only.Inside pod we make containers.
 
 API-Source is the main way of communication with nodes in K8s architecture.
 Control Manager is used for managing the tasks.
 etcd is not a componentof kubernetives.
 Every communication is made through api-server.
 action is made by kube scheduler. 
 Inside node , there are: kube-proxy,kubelet,container-engine and pods.
 kubelet is used for controlling the pods.
 
 Container does not have ip adress, pod has ip adress and pods can't communicate with each other.
  
Working with Kubernetes:
We create manifest that is .yml file.
Apply this to cluster (to master) to bring it into desired state.
Pods runs on node , which is controlled by master.

Pod is smallest unit in kubernetes.
Pod is group of one or more containers that are deployed together on the same host.
A cluster is a group of nodes.
Cluster has atleast one worker node and master node.
Control unit is pod , not containers.
Pod consistes of one or more tightly coupled containers.
Pod runs on node , which is controlled by master. 
All containers is=nside pod shares same volume.
Entire pod is hosted on the same node.
Rollback is possible in kubernetes.
Volume is out of node.
Important:
kubectl: single cloud.
kubeadm: on premise.
kubefd: federated.

 Master node will give instruction to docker nodes to run.
 AWS ECS,EKS ,Docker swarm are its alternatives.`1