Fullfillment is better than happiness.

Always go for sustainability in life.

Hammer candle has it's low unbreakable in down trend. Same in the case of morning star also.



Always try to be neutral in life , then only our brain can be able to think , other wise in extreme happiness and depression/fear, we are not ablle to think
or work properly , so remove extreme happiness and depression from life.

During decision making , try to make your dopamine level stable.


When . it's your day , things happens for you , so always have patience for that day and work hard, make your sword readyt and more sharp , prepare your 
mind for that days.

Become needed from needy , start making yourself that everybody knows. How many people who know me will make a difference.

Always increase your guru tatva rather than mercury tatva , money will always flow to calmness and patience , so try to make yourself like that.
Dont rush into things, stay calm and perform an action.

Don't do overcommitment and try to say no if you don't want to commit.

Wisdom is not effective without patience , wealth grows with patience.

Don't focus on saving money, focus on making money and make practice.

We never know where to make expense in future.

Always think that , you will never retire financially and earn money till last.

When there's a bad time , work on yourself.During bad time , preserve your confidence, self esteem and enthusiasm by having patience and working on new things
and perspective.

Because good time will definiztely come.

Whoever controls the narrative will set the question paper.

Do not control the thoughts, but don't let the thoughts control you.

Knowledge without practical is bullshit.

Overthinking comes from the fear , when we don't have the solution.

Always do deep thinking , with your past events, facts and truth , then my wisdom will be improved and will come to know the Truth.

Deep thinkning will give the clarity and empower me.

Deep thinkng will give the clarity of my personality.

Don't think in certainity and guarantee , it will make me to again do overthinking and focus on work on progress and probabilities.

Overthinking comes from lack of understanding.

Life is dynamic, know the best of today and future,and according to it , take the actions.

Investment is nothing, but anticipating the anticipation of others.

When we are very confident , we are not ready to accept the alternate idea.

Replace confidence with clarity.


Sometimes, facts sre used to manipulate you , so first focus on trend(Rujhaan) , because its is more important than facts. 

Feelings becomes trend. So , always look for feelings.

Facts themselves have got no meaning.

Perfectionism leads to wastage of time.

We can't define the life and the things which are goind to work.

A person who is well prepared is prepared for everything.

Always have a clear agenda of meeting with someone. Have aclear agenda in life.

Base of anger is fear , where there is fear , there is anger. So always adress your fear.

Loss of control is another big fear.

Enemy who is not angry is dangerous because he is not fearful and who is fearful will angry , so will be less dangerous.

Always have a large sample size in your life.

Santosh karna hai a-pne effort mein.

Don't focus on your greed, result , focus on youy effort, if you are satisfied with your effort then it is good.
When you are not satisfied, then increase your efforts.  


kya karne ka sochna se zyada acha hai k karna shuru kar do.

There is nothing right and wrong , there is only action and consequences.

Females likes decisive persons.

So , don't be in confusion and take decisions.

Always cherish what you have.

There is always a trade off  between belongingness and freedom and they both are important.

Happiness should not be conditional , it should be absolute.


Paise ka fayda yeh hai k you know you have backup of money and others know around you and they treat you well.
Har aadmi mein ek bewkoog aur ek intelligent cheez hoti hai usko exploit kiya jaata hai.
Aap apni bewakoofi pe exl=ploit naa ho iss intelligency.
