Data is facts , specially numerical facts collected together for refrence or information.
Information in knowledge communicated  concerning some particular facts.

Statistics is of 2 major types:
Descriptive Statistics is presenting , organizing and summarizing data.
Inferential statistics is drawing conclusions about a population base don data observed in sample. 
EDA is in descriptive analysis.
ML,DL is in inferential statistics.

Primary vs Secondary Dataset?
Primary Dataset is user generated and secondary dataset is other party's generated. Primary dataset is expensive and time consuming because it is original. 

Diversity bring the innovation.

Sampling techniques is of 2 types:
Probability Sampling: Simple Random, Stratified Random, Cluster Sampling, Systematic Sampling, MultiStage Sampling.
Non Probability Sampling:  Quota Sampling, Snowball Sampling, Judgemental Sampling , Convinient Sampling.

Try to look for broader categories in data. Scale of measurement are : Nominal, Ordianl, Internal, and Ratio.

Variable is of two types:
Categorical: It has furtehr two types:
Nominal:
Ordinal:
Numerical:  It has further two types:
Continuous:
Discrete:  

Phases of Data Science are :
Phase 1: Designing and Planning:  
Phase 2: Descriptive: 
Phase 3: Inferential Statistics: 

Numerical is used for quantitative analysis and Categorical is used for qualitative analysis.

Further classification of variables is:
Dependent and Independent variables.
Time Series and Cross sectional.

Types of studies:
Experimental Studies: Draw inference and conclusion. Applies treatment to individuals to isloate its effects and can claim causation.
Observational Studies: Andaja laga rahe hote hain. Just see and observe. Observe individuals only , no attempt to influence the outcome , can only claim assosciation , not causation. 

Phase 2: Descriptive analysis has 3 things:
Data Organization:
Tabulation:
Frequency Distribution: 
Data Visualization
Data Summary

How to check the Normal Distribution of Data?: Shapiro-will test.

First organize , then visualize and last summarize the data.


Data is complex , so we need to summarize its characterstics. Many statistical tests are intended to compare differences in:
Central tendency: To find center of data (mean or average).
Dispersion: Variability in values.

Inferential stats:
Parameter estimation:
Hypothesis testing: Two types:
Null Hypothesis: For eg. sab kuch barabar hai like height of 2 persons.
Alternate hypothesis: Height barabar nahi hain.

For testing Null hypothesis of 2 things: we use t-test or z-test. For 3 things or more things : we use annova test. 

For eg. If heights are not same , then we reject null hypothesis. Either Null hypothesis is accepted or rejected.

Confidence Interval = (point estimate) +/- (critical value)*(standard error) = x' +/- z*(s/root(n))
critical value is estimation that itna galti ho sakta hai , it's value is choosen by us.
For eg:
Confidence Level			z-value
0.90						1.645  =5.8 +/- 1.645(0.33)
0.95						1.967
0.99						2.58

For averagers , we compare the means.

We have to make the hypothesis. First , we make the hypothesis of our own and then we test the hypothesis.

Always first try to normalize the data by using normality test: Shapiro test and kolmogorov-test.


Methods to normalize data are:
Log Transformation.
Min-Max Scaler.
Standard Scaler.
Square root and Cubic root transformation. 

If data is not homogeneous then scale the data.

For finding a relationship between variables , we seek: connection, carrelation, causation and prediction.

What is data wrangling?

The more the data , the accurate the prediction is.

Categorical is qualitative and continuous is quantative.

Families of statistical tests:
1. Chi-Squareed test: It is used for comparison for categorical data only.Its 2 types: chi-square test of homogenity and chi-square test of independence.When to use:
Nothing affects this.
Can be used with any number of levels or groups.
2. Test/Anova: It is used for comparison of categorical data and continuous data (t-Test). It is mostly used. When to use:
One sample t-Test: for one sample group with a known mean.
Two sample t-Test:
Unpaired t-Test:Two different groups.
Paired t-Test: Sme group twice.
3. Correlation: It is used for continuous data only.


We have to look at p value.

Anova full form is analysis of variance. It is of two types:
One-way Anova:
Two-way Anova: 


Pearson Correlation: Use when there is one independent and one dependent variable.
Regression: Use when there is one independent and one dependent variable.

Type 1 and Type 2 error? 

In statistics, hypothesis is a claim or statement about a property of a population.

Hypothesis test is a standard procedure for testing a claim about a property of population.

In Null Hypothesis , we assume things equal.

Either reject h0 or failed to reject h0.

EDA:
Descriptive Statistics include:
1. Population vs Sample.
2. Central Tendency: Mean, Median ,Mode.
3. Measure of variability : Dispersion/Spread.
4. Outliers.
5. Data Visualization and plots.


An outlier is a data point in dataset that is distant from other observations.

P value is the probability for null hypothesis to be true.

Null hypothesis treats  everything same or equal.

Bernoualli distribution has only 2 outcomes. Value will be either 0 or 1.

Correlation does not imply causation.


















